Big Data Generated By People,
The Unstructured Challenge.
People are generating massive amounts of
data every day through their activities on
various social media networking sites
like Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn.
Or online photo sharing sites like
Instagram, Flickr, or Picasa.
And video sharing websites like YouTube.
In addition an enormous amount of
information gets generated via
blogging and commenting,
internet searches, more via text messages,
email, and through personal documents.
Most of this data is text-heavy and
unstructured,
that is non-conforming to
a well-defined data model.
We can also consider this
data to be content with
occasionally some
description attached to it.
This much activity Leads
to a huge growth in data.
Did you know that in a single day,
Facebook users produce
more data than combined US
academic research libraries?
Let's look at some similar
daily data volume numbers
from some of the biggest online platforms.
It is amazing that some of these
numbers are in the petabyte range for
daily activity.
A petabyte is a thousand terabytes.
The sheer size of mostly unstructured
data generated by humans
brings a lot of challenges.
Unstructured data refers to data that does
not conform to a predefined data model.
So no relation model and no SQL.
It is mostly anything that we
don't store in a traditional
Relational database management system.
Consider a sales receipt that
you get from a grocery store.
It has a section for a date, a section for
store name, and
a section for total amount.
This is an example of structure.
Humans generate a lot of
unstructured data in form of text.
There's no given format to that.
Look at all the documents that you
have written with your hand so far.
Collectively, it is a bank of unstructured
data you have personally generated.
In fact, 80 to 90% of all data in
the world is unstructured and
this number is rapidly growing.
Examples of unstructured data generated
by people includes texts, images,
videos, audio,
internet searches, and emails.
In addition to it's rapid growth
major challenges of unstructured data
include multiple data formats,
like webpages, images, PDFs,
power point, XML, and other formats that
were mainly built for human consumption.
Think of it, although I can sort my
email with date, sender and subject.
It would be really difficult
to write a program,
to categorize all my email messages
based on their content and
organize them for me accordingly another
challenge of human generated data
is the volume and fast generation of data,
which is what we call velocity.
Just take a moment to study this info
graphic, and observe what happens in one
minute on the internet, and
consider how much to contribute to it.
Moreover, confirmation of unstructured
data is often time consuming and costly.
The costs and
time of the process of acquiring, storing,
cleaning, retrieving, and processing
unstructured data can add up to quite and
investment before we can start
reaping value from this process.
It can be pretty hard
to find the tools and
people to implement such a process and
reap value in the end.
As a summary,
although there is an enormous amount of
data generated by people,
most of this data is unstructured.
The challenges of working with
unstructured data should not
be taken lightly.
Next, we'll look at how businesses are
tackling these challenges to gain insight.
And thus, value out of working
with people generated data.